1. What is Java? 
--> Java is a high level ,object oriented , platform independent programming language .
    Java was developed in 1991 by James Gosling at Sun MicroSystems, and was known as oak
	Later , Oak was named as Java in 1995.
	Features of java ,-
	a. Platform Independent 
	b. Simple 
	c. Robust 
	d. Distributed
	e. Multithreaded
	f. High Performance 
	g. Secure 
	h. Object Oriented 
	i. Dynamic
	
2. Is Java platform dependent or independent? 
--> Java is Platform independent .
    Java programs are compiled into byte code , which can run on any system that has JVM installed

3. What is JVM? 
--> JVM is a Java Virtual Machine
    is a virtual machine that executes Java bytecode
    It is Platform dependent , means different OS have different JVM implementation .
	Also provide memory management , security and run time environment for java programs 
	
4. What is JDK and JRE? 
--> JDK is Java Development Kit
        It is used by developers to develop the Java applications.
	    JDK = JRE + Development tools(Compiler , debugger)
    JRE is Java Runtime Environment 
	    provides environment to run Java program 
		JRE = JVM + core libraries needed to execute .class file
	It is used by user or client to run the program available in .class file
	
5. Why is Java called “Write Once, Run Anywhere”? 
--> Java source code is compiled into platform-independent bytecode , this bytecode can be executed on OS  
    like Windows, Linux , MacOS , etc. , hence it is called as Write Once, Run Anywhere.

6. What is a class in Java? 
--> Class is blueprint or template used to create object(instance) .
    Is a container with collection of - 
	 i)   variables
	 ii)  methods
	 iii) constructors
	 iv)  instance block 
	 v)   static block
    It is a logical entity . eg. Car 

7. What is an object? 
--> Object is a instance of class.
    Object has its own state and behaviour.(state = data , behaviour = operations) 
    Object is a real world entity. eg. Swift , Creta ,etc.

8. What is the main method in Java? 
--> Execution of any java program starts with main method.
    Main method in java is the entry point where the execution of program starts . 
    without main method the program will be compiled. It will show an 
	error at run time ,main method not found - declare main method as 'public static void main(String[] args'
	Syntax , public static void main(String[] args){}
	these syntax is very strict , but we can change,- 
	the name of args , 
	can change the order of access modifiers,
	can use var-arg parameter instead of [] ,
	can declare main method with final , synchronized , strictfp
	
9. What is the use of System.out.println()?
--> It is used to print the message on output screen/console.
    a.System - is a predefined class in java present in java.lang package 
               used to provide access to system resources like input , ouput ,memory.
	b.out - is a static object (PrintStream object) present in System class
            it represent standard output stream.	
	c.print - is a method of PrintStream class.
	          it prints the data and the cursor will remain on same line
	d.println - is a method of PrintStream class.
	            it prints the data and move the cursor to next line
	
11. What are data types in Java? 
--> Data types specify the type of data the variable can store.
    Data types is classified as - 
	a. Primitive Data type (pre-defined)- are data types that can work or hold single value at a time.
	   - it consists of two types ,- 
	      i) Numeric data type - are data types that can hold numeric value.
		     - it consists of two types ,-
			    a)integer values - are data types that can hold integer value.
				  - it consists of - byte , short , int , long
				b)flaot values - are data types that can hold decimal value.
				  - it consists of - float , double 
		  ii) Non Numeric data type - are data types that can hold non-numeric value.
		     - it consists of - char , boolean 
    b. Non-primitive Data type(user defined) - are data types that can hold more than one value at a time.
	   - it consists of - Array , String , Class , etc.

12. Give examples of primitive data types. 
--> There are 8 primitive data types they are ,-
    byte , short , int , long , float , double , char , boolean.

13. What is a variable? 
--> A variable is a named memory container/location that stores the data value.

14. How do you declare a variable in Java? 
--> int x;

15. What is the difference between int and float? 
--> int and float both are Primitive Data types.
    int and float are numeric data type 
	int is used to store integer values.
	float is used to store decimal/float values  
    size of int and float is 4 bytes .
    The range of int is -2^31 -1 to 2^31
    The range of float is -3.4e38 to 3.4e38
	float value will require a suffix as f;
	int does not require any suffix.
	Though they have same size of memory but the memory management is different in both data type.

16. What is type casting? 
--> Type casting is basically converting one data type into another data type.
    There are two types of type casting they are ,-
    a. Implicit type casting - done by JVM  
    b. Explicit type casting - done by developer 

17. What is the default value of int? 
--> 0

18. What is a keyword in Java? 
--> keyword are special reserved words in java that represent some meaning or functionality .
    There are 53 keywords in java:
	a. Data types(8) : byte , short , char , int , long , float , double  , boolean
	b. Flow control(10): if , else , switch , case , break , default , for , while , do , continue , default  
    c. Modifiers(11) : public , static , private , protected , synchronized , strictfp , volatile , transient , abstract , final , native   	
    d. Exception Handling(5) : try , catch , throw , throws ,finally
	e. Class related(6) : class , implements , interface , package , extends , import   
    f. Object related(4) : new , this ,instanceof , super 
	g. return type(1) : return
	h. Unused keywords(2) : goto , const
	i. java 5.0(2) : enum , assert 
	j. state level(3) : true , false , null

19. Can we use reserved keywords as variable names? 
--> No

20. What is the difference between = and ==?
--> =  , is used to assign a value to a variable.
        stores a value in variable 
    == , is used to compare two values .
	     check whether a condition is true or false  	
	
21. What is an if statement? 
--> is a decision making conditional statement used to execute the block of code only if the condition is true
    we can use else to execute the block of code if the coondition is false	
   	We can have nested if else also , the nearest else block to the if will be executing the else block if condition is false
    	
22. Difference between if and switch? 
--> if - is used to check any type of condition
       - works with all data types and expressions  
    switch - is used to check multiple fixed value  
	       - works with ,-(1.4) byte , short , char ,int
                         -(1.5) Wrapper classes , enum 		   
						 -(1.7) String 

23. What is a loop? 
--> used to execute a block of code repeatedly until the condition is false 

24. Types of loops in Java? 
--> a. for(initialization ;condition ;increment/decrement ){ } 
       - is used when we know starting , ending and increment/decrement  
    b. while(condition){ }
	   - is used when we dont know number of iterations 
	c. do{ }while(condition);
	   - is used when we want to execute once compulsoryly and then check the condition
    d. Enhanced for loop(1.5) - for ( : ){ } 
	   - used only with Arrays and collections	

25. Difference between for loop and while loop? 
--> for loop - is used when number of iterations are known
             - used for counter controlled loops
    while loop - is used when number of iterations are not known
               - used for condition controlled loop
			   
26. What is break statement? 
--> used to terminate the loop or switch completely 
    control goes outside the loop
    break can be used ,-
    a.inside switch to fall through 
    b.inside loops to break execution based some conditions
	c.labelled blocks to break blocks based on some conditions.
	
 27. What is continue statement?
--> used to skip the current iteration and continue for next iteration   
    control goes to the beginning of the loop
    used only in loops 
	
28. What will happen if we don’t write the main method? 
--> without main method the program will be compiled . It will show an 
	error at run time ,main method not found - declare main method as 'public static void main(String[] args'	
	
29. Can we run a Java program without class? 
--> No . JVM executes code that is part of Class .

30. What happens if we don’t compile a Java program? 
--> It will not generate a .class file(byte code).
    JVM executes only complied byte code , so the program can not run or execute 
	
31. Can a variable change its data type? 
--> No. A variable cannot change its data type once it is declared.
    However, the value stored in a variable can be converted to another data type using type casting.
	type casting converts the value, not the variable itself.
	
32. What is the size of int in Java? 
--> 4 bytes 

33. Why Java does not support pointers directly? 
--> To provide better security and and simplicity in programming
    Java avoids pointers by using references and automatic memory management (Garbage Collection).
    Also, the JVM handles memory allocation and deallocation internally,so programmers do not need to work with pointers.	